intro:Logic puzzles come in all shapes and sizes, but the kind of puzzles we offer here are most commonly referred to as "logic grid" puzzles. In each puzzle you are given a series of categories, and an equal number of options within each category. Each option is used once and only once. Your goal is to figure out which options are linked together based on a series of given clues. Each puzzle has only one unique solution, and each can be solved using simple logical processes (i.e. educated guesses are not required).
intro:A custom-labeled grid is provided for every puzzle, like the one you see to the right. The grid allows you to cross-reference every possible option in every category. You can eliminate pairs you know aren't true with an X, and pencil in pairs you know are related with an O. If you know, for example, that Lauren wasn't born in 1961, you can add an X in the box where the Lauren column and 1961 row meet. Similarly, if you know that Bryant was born in 1971, you can add an O in the appropriate box. Furthermore, since every option can only be used once in any given puzzle, you can eliminate the four other options for Bryant in that category (1937, 1946, 1961, 1975) and the four other options for 1971 (Anahi, Jayden, Lauren and Nikolas).
intro:Continue doing this for every clue you're given. Eventually you will have filled in enough X's and O's on the board that you will then be able to use simple logic to deduce the solution to the puzzle. For example, if A = B, and B = C, then A must equal C. Similarly, if A = B, and B =/= D, then A must not equal D.

category number:3
item number: 4
category:times
items:9:30am,10:30am,11:30am,12:30pm
category:yoga types
items:ashtanga,hatha,iyengar,vinyasa
category:leaders
items:Juana,Karen,Opal,Rosemary

clue:1. Karen's session starts 1 hour after Rosemary's class.
clue:2. The hatha yoga session begins sometime before Rosemary's session.
clue:3. The ashtanga yoga class starts 1 hour after Opal's class.
clue:4. Juana's session starts sometime after Opal's session.
clue:5. The iyengar yoga session is at 11:30am.
clue:6. The 10:30am class is either Rosemary's class or the vinyasa yoga class.

answer:9:30am,hatha
answer:10:30am,ashtanga
answer:11:30am,iyengar
answer:12:30pm,vinyasa
answer:9:30am,Opal
answer:10:30am,Rosemary
answer:11:30am,Karen
answer:12:30pm,Juana
answer:Juana,vinyasa
answer:Karen,iyengar
answer:Opal,hatha
answer:Rosemary,ashtanga

background:Dave has opened a studio in downtown Boulder which offers classes in a number of different types of yoga. Using only the clues below, match each class to its leader and scheduled time, and determine the total number of students in each.
background:Remember, as with all grid-based logic puzzles, no option in any category will ever be used more than once. If you get stuck or run into problems, try the "Clear Errors" button to remove any mistakes that might be present on the grid, or the "Hint" button to see the next logical step in the puzzle.
